English translation for appdev docs (#76)
personium/new-docs: src/getting-started/appdev-process.md

---
id: appdev-process

> title: Flow of application development

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Flow of app development
```

> sidebar_label: Flow of application development

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: Flow of app development
```

---

> This section describes the flow of application development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes the flow of app development.
```

> First, let me explain a few things you should know before explaining the flow of application development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: No need to repeating what you are going to do next.

## OAuth 2.0 authorization code flow

> In the case of an application that uses Personium, access to personal data from the application is performed through the REST API for Box in the data subject Cell. At this time, the data access authorization method follows the OAuth 2.0 specifications. There are various types of OAuth 2.0 flows, but the sample app uses the authorization code flow that is adopted when the PDS operator and the application operator are different.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
App that uses Personium gains access to scoped data in the data subject Cell by executing the REST APIs for Box. The data access authorization method follows the OAuth 2.0 specifications. There are various types of OAuth 2.0 flows. The sample app adopts the authorization code flow for the ecosystem where PDS and app operators are different.
```

Please refer to [Authorization model](../user_guide/003_Auth.md#app-authorization) for details about authorization code flow.

> ## Data subject Cell and application Cell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Data subject and app Cells
```

When implementing with authorization code flow, use two types of Cell, data subject Cell and application Cell. These two types of cells are used as follows.

> | Cell type | Role |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Cell type | Description |
```

|----|----|

> |Data Subject Cell | Data Subject Data Management and Authorization |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Data Subject Cell | Data management and authorization of the corresponding data subject|
```

> |App Cell|App authorization according to OAuth 2.0 and storage/publication of app assets|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|App Cell|App authorization (OAuth 2.0) and storage/deployment of the corresponding app|
```

> App Cell is used in the authorization code flow as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
App Cell is used in the following authorization code flow operations.
```

> * Client registration: done by creating the application Cell

Reviewer: Not sure what do you mean by client registration (even in Japanese). Can you reply by comment?

Author: Client registration is OAuth 2.0 word. In OAuth, client means application.
https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-2

Reviewer: Okay. Since we asked the end-user to interact with an HTML registration form. It is client registration.

> * client_id: Use URL of application Cell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* client_id: URL of the app Cell
```

> * client_secret: Authenticate and acquire the application using the account on the application Cell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* client_secret: Token received from authentication of the account in the app Cell
```

> You can also host static websites by storing files such as HTML, JavaScript, CSS on the application Cell so that anyone can refer to the access settings. The sample application in JavaScript in this section is supposed to be hosted on the Cell application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also host static website by storing files (HTML, JavaScript and CSS) in the app Cell by configuring public access. The sample app in this section is assumed to be hosted on the app Cell.
```

> The following figure shows the relationship between the data subject Cell and the application Cell in the sample application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following figure shows the relationship between the data subject and app Cells in the sample app.
```

![Cell Relation](assets/getting-started/cell_relation.png)

> The development of the application is done for the data subject Cell part and the application Cell part.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scope of the app development includes both the data subject and app Cells.
```

## Box and bar file installation

> The application needs to take the same data structure on Box in order to perform the intended behavior regardless of which data subject Cell is used. In Personium, before the user of the application uses the application, Box installation is performed using the bar file that defines the data structure of the data subject Cell, and the application-specific data structure is built on Box. Please refer to the following documents for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The app needs to make sure that the same data structure is inside any data subject Cell's Box in order to perform the intended behavior. In Personium, before the user can start using the app, Box installation is required. Bar file is to be installed that defines the app-specific data structure of the box. Please refer to the following documents for details.
```

* [Box installation](../apiref/007_Box_install.md)
* [bar file](../apiref/301_Bar_File.md)

> The development of the data-oriented Cell part is the construction of the data structure on Box and the output of the bar file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The app developments involving the data subject Cell are the construction of the Box's data structure and the output of the bar file.
```

## Template app

The Personium community offers templates and deployment tools for [React](https://reactjs.org/) based JavaScript apps.

[personium-blank-app](https://github.com/personium/personium-blank-app)

> By using this tool, you can develop the original application by customizing from the minimum data subject Cell and application Cell. It also simplifies development work such as building bar files and uploading them to the Cell application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using this tool, you can develop your original app by customizing the data subject and app Cell. The tool also simplifies development work such as building bar files and uploading them to the app Cell.
```

### Flow of initial construction

> The flow of initial construction of the template application is as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The procedures for setting up the environment are as follows.
```

> 1. clone of personium-blank-app to local development environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. clone personium-blank-app to local development environment
```

> 2. Construction of application Cell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Construction of app Cell
```

   1. Editing the configuration file

>    2. Deploy to application Cell (execute `npm run deploy`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. Deploy to app Cell (execute `npm run deploy`)
```

>    3. ACL setting of file on application Cell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   3. ACL setting of file on app Cell
```

3. Construction of data subject Cell
   1. Build the bar file (run `npm build-bar`)

>    2. Box installation in the development data-based Cell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. Install Box in the data subject Cell
```

> Please refer to [personium-blank-app](https://github.com/personium/personium-blank-app) for the detailed procedure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please refer to [personium-blank-app](https://github.com/personium/personium-blank-app) for the detailed procedures.
```

> > [Unit Manager explained in the previous section](./appdev-management-tool.md) can be used to perform operations on the Cell such as ACL setting and Box installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [Unit Manager explained in the previous section](./appdev-management-tool.md) can be used to perform ACL setting and Box installation on the Cell.
```

> ## Application development flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## App development flow
```

> After building the template application, you can develop by repeating the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After building the template app, you can develop by repeating the following.
```

> * Development on the development data-based Cell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Development on the data subject Cell
```

>   1. Creation of data structure on Box by Unit Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Use Unit Manager to design and create the Box's data structure  
```

>   2. App operation check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  2. Verify the App's functions
```

>   3. Output of bar file by Unit Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  3. Use Unit Manager to export the bar file  
```

>   4. Commit the bar file to the code repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  4. Commit the bar file to the your repository
```

* Development on App Cell

>   1. File editing in local development environment (HTML/JavaScript/CSS etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Edit files in local development environment (HTML/JavaScript/CSS etc.)
```

>   2. Deploy to application Cell (execute `npm run deploy`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  2. Deploy to app Cell (execute `npm run deploy`)
```

>   3. ACL setting of file on application Cell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  3. Configure the files' ACL setting on the app Cell
```

>   4. App operation check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  4. Verify the App's functions
```

>   5. Commit the files on the application Cell to the code repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  5. Commit the modified files to the your repository
```

> > Instead of deploying to the application Cell, you can start the development Web server on the local development environment and check the operation. In that case, run `npm run debug`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Instead of deploying to the app Cell, you can start the development Web server on the local development environment and verify the functions. In that case, run `npm run debug`.
```

## Create Box data structure

> Supplement to "Creating Data Structure on Box with Unit Manager" in the previous section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional explanation for the previous section ("Creating Data Structure on Box with Unit Manager").
```

> Both file data (WebDAV) and relational data (OData) can be used with Personium. There are the following differences between the two.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both file data (WebDAV) and relational data (OData) can be used in Personium. Differences are listed below.
```

| Data type | Searchability | ACL setting unit |
|--------|-----|------------|
|WebDAV|❌ Not searchable | ✅ Set per file/collection |
|OData|✅ Searchable by query | ❌ Set per collection |

> Therefore, it is recommended to handle the data to be searched with OData and the detailed information data of the unit for ACL setting with WebDAV.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, it is recommended to use OData for searchable data and use WebDAV for data which ACL setting is to be applied.
```

> ## Box data structure in sample application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Box data structure in sample app
```

> For reference, Box data structure is described in the sample application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For reference, Box data structure is described in the sample app.
```

### Entire collection

| Path | Type | Content |
|----|----|----|

> |/locations/{YYYY}/{MMdd}/s_{start_time}.json|WebDAV|Accommodation Details|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|/locations/{YYYY}/{MMdd}/s_{start_time}.json|WebDAV|Location Details|
```

> |/locations/{YYYY}/{MMdd}/m_{start_time}.json|WebDAV|Move Details |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|/locations/{YYYY}/{MMdd}/m_{start_time}.json|WebDAV|Movement Details |
```

> |/index/Stay|OData|Accommodation information for search|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|/index/Stay|OData|Searchable location information|
```

> |/index/Move|OData|Move information for search|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|/index/Move|OData|Searchable movement information|
```

> The movement history data obtained with the original Google Takeout is divided into moving/stay units, and the divided files are stored in WebDAV. When sharing data to others, do it for each WebDAV file. In addition, the data for searching is stored in OData.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The location histories obtained from Google Takeout is divided into moving/stay types. Each record is stored in a WebDAV file. When sharing data to third parties, each WebDAV file is assigned with a predefined role with proper permission. To display the list of location histories by date, searchable data is stored in OData.
```
